So this one says, find the average test
scores for each student in the class.
So you would then need one loop that's
gonna go through every student in
the class.
So there's however many of you in here,
that will be one loop.
And then go through every test
grade that the student has,
that will be another loop that
goes through the tests, all right?
So this is what the code will look
like for something like that.
We say we have 24 students,
they have 4 tests each.
On line 16, we have that for loop that
says go for the number of students.
This is called an outer loop, right?
And then inside of that loop,
we then add another loop on line 21,
and this is for
that particular student's tests.
Notice here, on line 16,
we initialize i as 0,
we use i, cuz that's convention.
If you're gonna use an inner loop,
do not use i again,
cuz i is tracking that outer loop.
You're gonna get yourself royally confused
if you try to reuse that in another loop
inside of there.
So convention is, what's the next letter?
j, we use j for the next loop.
If you had another one,
you would use k or whatever, but
you should rethink life if
you get three loops in.
[LAUGH] All right, so
that will process the number of students,
this is what that inner
loop would look like.
Notice here on line 22,
I said Score for Test #,
and then in parentheses I put j+1.
What is that doing, anyone know?
>> It's printing where we are on the loop,
but since it's 0-indexed,
it would be kind of odd for
the user to read that.
>> [LAUGH] Exactly, so
we start loops with a 0,
that's a programming computer kinda thing,
right?
In real life we don't talk to people like
that, what's test score number 0 like?
No one says that, right?
So we're just adding this for a little
user friendliness, a 1 will be added to j.
It's not actually added to j itself.
We put it in parentheses to say,
just temporarily add 1 to whatever's in
the value of j, and
print that out on the console, all right?
>> So it's displaying it,
but it's not assigning it.
>> Yes, exactly.
Okay, so this would be that whole program.
So 16 is the outer loop,
21 is the inner loop.
Notice 27 goes on to do more things.
It is still inside of the outer loop,
okay?
So this outer loop has statements,
an inner loop, and then more statements.
So that covers loops, any questions?
How do you feel about that?
Feel good?
All right.
>> I do have one question.
>> Yeah.
>> You were talking about
if you had multiple loops inside
of loops inside of loops, and
how it's not a good way to go about it.
What convention would you use-
>> [LAUGH]
>> If you have a less naive way to go
about something like that?
>> Yeah, I mean,
that really depends on the situation.
Sometimes you have no choice,
you just kinda get yourself in that.
Two loops is not abnormal, right?
But as you start getting deeper and
deeper, even the two loops,
you start having performance
implications with that, right?
So there's ways, and
it's beyond the scope of this class,
but you'll start thinking of
how else might I do this to
have a shorter time complexity and
stuff like that.
And it just might be
a way of restructuring.
I can't give a hard answer cuz it
really depends on whatever it is you're
trying to do.
But methods is one way where you might
have this code inside of another method.
So that's another way to
not duplicate stuff, and
you can just call out
to it when you need it.